in politics in your own mind in your own
heart you have to have a middle category
for people who are neither your friends
nor your enemies people who may disagree
with you in ways that you find very
disturbing very upsetting but who still
aren't your enemies you know i'm gonna
use an example I'm related to veganism
and then surprised this video talks
about veganism you know many years ago I
remember I read an article that dealt
with the issue of anti-semitism in
European philosophy and it mentioned as
an example of Voltaire to Voltaire is a
famous author in European literature
he's also sometimes discussed as a
philosopher now the guy writing the
modern author writing this article
writing this critique in his opinion he
said look you know anti-semitism is a
real problem in philosophy there were
many famous European philosophers who
wrote anti-semitic tirades anti-semitic
rants but I remember he just said you
know there were guys like Voltaire who
kind of say some offensive things about
Jews who kind of say some insulting
things but you know they're not really
anti-semitic they're kind of just being
a jerk and there has to be a kind of
middle category where we don't force
everybody to either be anti-semitic or
Katy Semitic we have to have some kind
of flexibility in saying well you know
Voltaire said some offensive and
insulting things about Judaism but he
also said offensive things about
Christianity that were similar you know
Voltaire had a sort of satirical view of
religion in general of tradition in
general and you know he i think he
especially disliked superstition so you
look at that and say well is it really
so surprising that he said some
offensive things against jews and
against judaism now i just mentioned
this is only example i'm not taking
position this i have read this much
Voltaire or Voltaire is not of any great
interest to me it's not something that
is part of my life in any way but that
argument in passing in the middle of an
Academical that did stay with me or that
you know what that's a good point you
can't put everyone into the category of
friend or enemy or one extreme or the
other there has to be a middle ground
for people who may be insensitive who
may be jerks and you may say things that
really
upset you the really offend you because
you know like I mean I think some of
some of Voltaire's remarks about Judy's
oh I think they are offensive I think
people do have their feelings hurt but
still you don't have to jump to that
conclusion you have to put them into
that category now um I want to make this
clear it is not false humility on my
part when I talk about veganism as a
whole as being a sort of despised
minority in the year 2016 we're not
respected if you think about the social
status of veganism compared to the
social status of say Hinduism in the
Western world Hinduism has much more
respect and you know Hinduism has
thousands of years of struggle behind it
including you know in the last couple of
centuries struggle against the British
Empire there are real historical and
political reasons for why people respect
Hinduism and don't respect Buddhism
Hindus also build temples run charities
have political organizations there were
a religion and a philosophical tradition
that's massive in a sense again now go
to any major university library and type
into the computer hindu philosophy you
can go to a section there's a big book
shelf full of hindu philosophy you may
not like it or you may love it whatever
but there's a big section of the library
full of books for what's called a new
philosophy you go to that University and
you type in vegan philosophy you may get
you may get one small bookshelf you make
it a couple of books on the shelf but
it's not the case the veganism is a
massive tradition like that it's not the
case that we're respected as a minority
in Western society the way that Hindus
are you know we really are kind of
despised and laughed at minority it's
not false you know it's not false
humility on my part it's real humility
I'm aware of the position we're in and
then within that tiny minority so vegans
are a small minority you weren't well
respected I'm in an even smaller
minority I'm in a minority of vegans who
oppose domestication of animals I'm in
the minority of vegans who really care
about habitat conservation you know
forests rain forests deserts Savannah
whatever means all kinds of different
habitats I am really worried more about
wild animals and less about the pet
based paradigm it's not false humility I
know that my views are unpopular in
Western society as a whole
and I told them my views from popular
within veganism I'm not on an ego trip
about it I'm really not so you know it's
completely inevitable that many of my
fellow vegans including people who are
fans of my channel in some sense who are
fans of some of my content will really
dislike what I have to say on these
issues so one example that someone who
is not my close personal friend but who
watches my channel and response my
content is vague and so her name is Ann
and she made her screen name vague am
many of you already know her if not
we'll give a link below this video um so
vague and and I we are friendly but I
wouldn't say we're close personal
friends the last conversation we had on
skype was great I think we talked for at
least an hour you know just really
friendly conversation if she sent me an
email today saying she wanted to talk to
me on skype again I would without asking
why it's a okay when you have time we
can chat so in that sense we are
friendly um but you know like we've
never talked about deep personal secrets
you know we're not we're not close
friends fine you're not getting closer
we could in future we could be but you
know whatever um you know again I kind
of meet people with an open mind open
heart away now Anne really disagrees
with me about pet ownership and that's
fine I got no hate in my heart towards
her and I recognize I mean in terms of
what I see on the Internet I think she's
in the majority of vegans with her views
on pit I think I'm in the minority now I
also think I'm right and I also think
the debate is worth having but there's
no reason for us to hate each other
personally over that and now Ann and I
again and I really do respect this but
Ann is speaking in her second language
english is not her first language and I
think that some of my communication
problems of the past with her were for
that reason yeah I remember she sent me
one email and it just said like you know
you don't seem trustworthy when you say
this I don't think she meant that as an
insult but this was in the middle of you
know durianrider denouncing me and you
know I wrote back I was like you know
what the hell are you saying to me
because like I didn't know she meant
that she actually believed durian
writers version of events of what
happened Chiang Mai you know we've had
communication problems uh and again I'm
really glad I made the effort to talk to
her by skype and we
have some kind of friendly relationship
you know why not I've talked so much
about tolerance and cooperation and
building bridges with people who you
have real differences in the channel
vegan cheetah is one example there are a
million other exam no I get both fan
mail and hate mail from Christians and
from from religious Jews from Orthodox
Jews you write to me you know there are
people who watch my channel and
appreciate what I have to say but they
literally believe I'm going to hell
after I die literally they look at me
and think gee what a nice Jewish boy
it's too bad he's an atheist he's going
to hell after he dies but they still
come to my channel they still enjoy what
I have to say they still see some value
in my contribution and you know I'm as
polite as I can be in respond to those
people but i'm also very open you've
heard me say on this channel whole bunch
of times I believe that when you pray to
a god you are praying to a god that
doesn't exist you can be offended you
can be angry at me but you know I'm open
about the fact that I'm a nihilistic
atheist and I'm not gonna I'm not in
order to flatter my viewers I'm not
going to pretend to believe those things
so I mean that's like the intro comes
around to the fact that I did make a
video in a Q&A and the contacts to doing
question and answer with my viewers
where I responded to people asking me
further questions and my views on pet
ownership and a lot of people actually
did like that video and felt that it was
substantial there were people who
disagreed with it but you still felt it
was a worthwhile 15 minutes of their
life to watch and there were people who
agreed with it and said it really meant
selling to them to hear somebody else
who shares their view because it is a
minority view within because the vast
majority of vegans are pro domestication
of animals are pro pet ownership the
vast majority of vegans are willing to
accept any excuse for why literally
chopping the balls off a dog castrating
a dog is perfectly okay ever even why
feeding cow meat to a pet cat is
perfectly okay so that's the majority
view and veganism I realized what I have
to say is that you even have you so you
know it is unfortunate but I got a very
disconsolate message from a natural
vegan and she really felt that that
video was a personal attack against her
now I'd like to say first of all
objectively and subjectively that video
is not a personal attack against her I
think it's very clear throughout the
first half of it that I'm responding to
many different
people who have criticized me in to
screw with me not just a natural vegan
and that I do mention you know unnatural
vegan specifically and what I say is
that I'm not responding to her because I
feel that what she has to say is not
worth responding to now I can understand
that she had her feelings hurt and you
know I'm big on giving apologies on this
channel I can say you know I'm sorry I
apologize that this hurt your feelings
now the sense there's a sense in which
that's sincere the sense in which I can
apologize that you know I've heard of
feelings but the sense in which it's not
sincere is I feel this is really worth
debating I feel that the content of that
video and my earlier videos really is
worth sharing on youtube I think this is
an important issue to talk about I I
don't feel that I've upset you i don't
feel I've upset a natural vegan over
something trivial like you know who
wears too much makeup or someone's
personal life or you know like the SN
O'Neill controversy we have so many
controversies of people insult each
other over nothing and you know the
other sense in which it's hard to be
sincere is that in reality that the
message she sent back to me really was
insulting and it's strange because what
she has to say to me is she really asked
she asks me directly not to treat a
criticism not treat people criticizing
me as a personal attack and I don't and
I'm in the absurd situation seem back to
work well I can ask the same of you I
disagreed with you on this one issue and
it's not a personal attack against you i
can ask you please do not treat this
criticism as a personal attack in the
past I have made many complimentary
remarks about a natural vegan those are
sincere compliments I have a long video
about caffeine and alcohol use and I say
many flattering things about her and her
channel and the importance of her
contribution to the vegan scene to
digital veganism or digital vegan
activism those compliments are
completely sincere I can appreciate part
of what she does while disagreeing with
another part in the same way I think
vague an appreciates some of what I do
on this channel and she disagrees with
other parts and this kind of mutual
admiration naturally is going to be
selective I'm going to like some things
on your channel and you're going to
dislike some of mine
you know can can we be friends not
always you know there has to be a middle
category it can't be that everyone is
either your friend or your enemy so it's
too bad i mean i hope this is not the
start of a few that last 50 years with a
natural vegan deeply hating my guts i
really do think if you watch every
single video i have made about pet
ownership i don't think a single one of
them is a you know is a personal attack
on a natural vegan or anyone else you
know and in saying again in saying what
a natural vegan has to say about this
issue i think what she has to say on it
is stupid i think it's beneath contempt
I think it's not even worth critiquing
yes that is a harsh view on her opinion
on this one issue but that is as we say
in the university that is a dram it's
not ad hominem it's not saying she's a
bad person it's not attacking her
character it's not insulting her it's
saying the content of her views on this
one issue I have no respect for and in
many other videos I've commented that
other categories of her of her videos I
do have respect for other at things she
contributes to our discussion the
internet I do appreciate do have respect
for so why respond to that as a personal
attack I mean the other stuff she had to
say to me you know she said I'm the same
as durianrider which is great especially
given the current situation that I'm the
same as durianrider you know because I
would respond in this way well you know
I I do think that's an insincere and
caddy insult I have responded reasonably
too many unreasonable criticisms on this
channel you can see me respond to you
know totally unreasonable criticism from
Julia bore you've seen how I respond to
criticism from durianrider himself
you've seen me respond to criticism for
many many people in a reasonable in a
way that I try to make informative and
interesting so you know I I have a long
record at this point of responding
reasonably even when other people's
criticisms of me have been unreasonable
and of inviting and encouraging descent
which I do even within my patreon
channel I tell people look you're
entitled to have your opinion
as long as it's on topic you can
disagree with me and people do people
think I'm wrong about pet ownership
people think I'm wrong about all kinds
of fine I know it's it's really not the
case that I've respond to any of these
things by denouncing people in the way
that during writer does and you know I
don't know the other side of it is if
you're new to this channel if you
haven't seen my videos in the past let's
give it a chance uh you know if you
think I'm a jerk if you think I'm
unreasonable because of what I've had to
say about pet ownership you'll probably
find nine out of ten other topics that
I'm talking about where you don't feel
that way and on the other hand if you
really do disagree with me on nine out
of 10 topics maybe the one thing we have
in common is veganism and maybe there's
something really valuable in being
subscribed to a YouTube channel that
challenges you so profoundly a YouTube
channel that is actually edgy and
challenging that isn't just repeating
the familiar mantras of veganism saving
the world and solving all our problems
and helping you with miraculous weight
loss and make you feel energetic and
vibrant and wonderful you know I mean
I'm not appealing to a mass audience
here I think there are people who value
this channel because they agree with
what I say but I think there are a lot
of people who value this channel because
they disagree and they feel those
disagreements are worth happening they
feel that those debates are substantive
so it's too bad i mean if if a natural
vegan is going to hate me forever if
that's the cost of me being honest about
issues that i really feel are important
substantive on the internet then that's
a cost i'm going to except